Here's a quick guide of nanoscript's terminology. These are used throughout the documentation, and are official terminology.

Also see [l art="#Quick start": Quick start].

# Types

- There are types of values.
- Outside of the normal types, classes can be used to define other types.
- Due to inheritance, a value can be of multiple types.

# Object orientation

- Classes are types, but classes themselves are values of the normal type `class`.
- Classes are instantiated to create objects of the class's type.
- Objects are constructed from classes using the class's constructor.
- All objects are of type the class it was constructed from.
- Classes are not constructed and objects are not instantiated.
- There is no official use of "instance".

# Variables

- Things that hold values are variables.
- Variables in a scope are called scoped variables.
- Variables declared by a class are called class variables.
- Class variables are members of their class.
- Class variables are either object or shared variables.
- Object variables exist on every object constructed from the class and have their own independent value.
- Shared variables exist only on the class itself and so only have one value.
- There is no official use of "properties" or "fields".
- There is no official use of "instance properties/fields/variables".
- There is no official use of "static properties/fields/variables".

# Functions

- Sequences of statements that are routines that take input and give output are functions.
- Functions are called.
- Functions are first class.
- Functions can be declared by itself or as part of a class.
- Functions by themselves are called lambdas.
- Functions as part of a class are called class functions.
- Class functions are members of their class.
- Class functions exist on a class.
- If class functions have a special parameter called `self` as their first parameter, they can also be called by objects constructed by their class, with the object implicitly provided as the argument to the `self` parameter.
- There is no official use of "methods".
- There is no official use of "invoke/run/execute" in relation to functions.
- There is no official use of "instance/static functions/methods".

# Parameters

- Things that take values are parameters.
- The values that are provided are arguments.

# Operations

- There are predefined operations that operate on values.
- To operate with operations, operators are used.
- The values that are operated on are operands.
- An operator invokes an operation on its operands.
- Classes can define what happens when objects of their type are operated upon, using object operation implementation.
- There is no official use of "operator overload".
